>> One of the greatest
mysteries of our universe--
what existed before
the Big Bang,
and how was our
universe created?
Was our universe
created in a lab,
by a higher form of
extraterrestrial intelligence?
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Scientists have
studied for years
the many different
possibilities that
may have created the Big Bang,
how our universe was created.
Now, Avi Loeb, Harvard
Professor of Science and author
of "Extraterrestrial, The First
Sign of Intelligent Life Beyond
Earth" proposes in
his latest editorial
for "Scientific American"
that our universe
may have been created in a lab.
Modern physics has a problem.
We do not yet have
a good understanding
of how to unify quantum
mechanics and gravity.
If we did, we could,
in theory, figure out
how to create a Big Bang.
This idea led Professor
Loeb to his theory.
>> We imagine a civilization
that had science and technology
for much more than a
century, the way we did.
Then, they could have arrived
at the theory that unifies
quantum mechanics and gravity.
And if they figure out how
the Big Bang can be created,
perhaps they could also
produce it themselves
in the laboratory.
And if that happens,
then there is
a very interesting possibility
just like in nature.
You have multiple generations
where, for example, a chick
comes out of an egg,
becomes a chicken,
and lays another
egg, and so forth.
That can continue forever.
You can imagine a universe
like ours giving birth
to an intelligent
civilization that
can create a universe
like the one that made it.
>> Imagine if different
civilizations were given
a letter grade.
Professor Loeb puts
us at a grade C.
The more advanced civilizations
have higher grade.
>> One can, in principle,
classify civilizations
in the universe into
different classes.
Type C civilization
is similar to ours,
where we rely on the
sun to keep us alive.
And we are using
our environment,
the way it was provided to us.
But then, one can imagine
a civilization type
B, which is not dependent on the
star next to which it was born.
In fact, it can create a habitat
that supports its life far away
from the star.
And you can imagine
creating a platform where
a civilization can live happily
using nuclear energy that
is supplied to it from nuclear
reactors, and not from the star
that it happens to
be born next to.
That will be type B.
And then, type A
civilizations would
be those that are
capable of recreating
the astrophysical
environment that they
live in-- and in particular,
the universe as a whole.
So creating a universe
in the laboratory
implies that you are at the top
of the class of civilizations
in the universe.
And we haven't reached
that yet because we don't
have quantum theory of gravity.
>> If we are a C class
civilization now,
has there been any time in
history when we may have
received a nudge forward, a
push from a more intelligent
or sophisticated
extraterrestrial civilization
in the past?
>> About 70 years ago, the
famous physicist Enrico Fermi
sat with his group at
Los Alamos for lunch.
And they discussed
extraterrestrial intelligence.
And he asked, if they exist
out there, where is everybody?
Now, that is a very
presumptuous question
because we had
recorded history only
for 10,000 years, which
is about one millionth
of the age of Earth.
And his question is similar
to sitting at home and asking,
nobody is knocking on my door.
Therefore, I don't
have neighbors.
Do I have neighbors?
And the reality of the
situation is that they
could have visited long ago.
They could have witnessed
Earth and perhaps even
interfered with what
happened on Earth.
But we would never know
because only microbes or maybe
even dinosaurs were around.
And they haven't
visited in a way
that we would recognize
very recently.
But, of course, one way to
figure out if we are alone
or not is to search.
Without searching, we would
never find the answer.
>> This is an interesting
thought piece,
but what's the takeaway?
What do we do with
this information?
>> The important lesson from
this possibility is that we
should search for class A
or class B civilizations
because we might not be the
smartest kid on the block.
And we can learn from those
civilizations regarding
how to behave and how
to get our act together.
Because at the moment,
not only are we
relying on the sun
for our energy supply,
but we are also destroying
our environment in a way
that it will not allow
us to, in principle,
survive for more than a few
centuries into the future.
And so, my hope is that
by finding evidence
for more advanced
civilizations, we
will be convinced to behave
in a more clever way.
>> For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]